- [Host] Everyone knows when
"Star Wars" takes place.
It's the first thing you see.
"A long time ago, in a
galaxy far, far away."
But between the sequels,
prequels, and spinoffs,
it gets harder to pin
down just how long ago
these "Star Wars" stories happened.
Good news is, this is the
timeline you've been looking for.
Though "Star Wars" has an entire universe
of outside materials,
we're gonna stick with the
cinematic timeline for now.
That means all the main
Episodes, Solo, and Rogue One,
and some extended universe
knowledge to connect the dots.
Even so, there's a lot we
won't be able to cover.
So, in the spirit of
"The Rise of Skywalker,"
we're going to try to
stick to the primary story
around the Skywalker line.
I know you're dying to hear
about everything on Canto Bight,
but unfortunately, we don't
have time for stuff like that.
To chart our calendar,
we'll be using the standard
BBY and ABY year system.
That's before and after
the Battle of Yavin,
aka the ending of "A New Hope."
Okay, no time to waste.
At the sound of the gong, we begin.
(gong twangs)
(film reel clicking)
A long, long, long time ago
on the oceanic planet of
Ahch-To, Age of the Jedi,
a highly Force-sensitive
denizen founds the Jedi Order.
The Jedi erect their
first temple and village,
and chronicle their philosophies
in a collection of ancient texts,
all of which are cared
for by the native Lanai.
You might know them
better as the Caretakers,
those turtle-nun things
that hang out with Luke.
In addition to these holy sites,
the Jedi establish the
Temple of the Whills
in the Holy City on Jedha.
The Jedi Order protects the Old Republic,
the democratic government
based on the planet Coruscant
that peacefully unites
all the star systems.
That peace is threatened
when one rogue Jedi
taps into the dark side of the Force,
driven by anger and fear.
The Order banishes the rogue Jedi,
but he takes a band of followers with him
and forms the Sith.
The resulting schism leads to a civil war
that ravages the Old Republic.
Ultimately, the Jedi are victorious
and force the Sith to
retreat to the darkest corner
of the galaxy.
The Jedi build a new temple on Coruscant
atop an old Sith shrine,
which becomes their central
hub for millenia to come.
Through the years, the Sith lie dormant,
waiting to strike again.
Age of Republic, circa 1000 BBY to 24 BBY.
The Old Republic soft-relaunches
as the Galactic Republic.
In this new governing body,
worlds elect senators to represent them
on a Galactic Senate.
The Supreme Chancellor
oversees the Senate.
We'll keep the space
politics to a minimum,
but they're important.
I'll just fast forward to 32 BBY.
Wealthy corporations
like the Trade Federation
have representation in
the now-corrupt senate.
They're in cahoots with
the Sith Lord Darth Sidious
and his apprentice, Darth Maul.
Sidious is scheming to
restore the Sith Empire
by way of lobbying and
political influence.
To that end, Sidious has been
posing as Senator Palpatine,
a representative of Naboo.
To moderate the Trade Federation's reach,
the Galactic Republic passes a law
that taxes previously-untaxed
trading areas.
That rubs the Federation
in all the wrong ways.
A Jedi Master named Sifo-Dyas
worries that this dispute
will escalate into war,
so he urges the Galactic
Republic to prepare an army.
When his fellow Jedi refuse to listen,
Sifo-Dyas takes matters
into his own hands.
He contacts the scientists
on the planet Kamino
and they begin production on a clone army,
using the bounty hunter
Jango Fett as a base model.
Shortly afterward, Sifo-Dyas dies,
and Darth Sidious
incorporates the clone army
into his master plan.
In protest of the new taxation,
the Trade Federation sets up a
blockade on the planet Naboo.
Yep, the very same planet that
Senator Palpatine represents.
To end the conflict with
discreet negotiations,
Supreme Chancellor Finis Valorum
sends Jedi Knight Qui-Gon Jinn
and his apprentice Obi-Wan Kenobi
to the Federation flagship.
But when they arrive, Darth
Sidious orders their execution
and the abduction of Naboo's
queen, Padme Amidala.
The Jedi survive the ambush
and flee to the planet's surface.
On Naboo, they meet a, uh,
eccentric Gungan named Jar Jar Binks.
He helps escort them to the Gungan City
and onwards towards
Theed, Naboo's capital.
And then he just kinda sticks around.
They secure Queen Amidala,
but their ship's hyperdrive
is damaged in the frey.
Hey, if a little astromech
droid named R2-D2
didn't repair the ship's generator,
they would have been sitting ducks.
So, before they can escort
Padme back to Coruscant,
they have to make a pit stop
on the desert planet of Tatooine.
While window-shopping for the
replacement hyperdrive part,
they meet a young pilot
named Anakin Skywalker,
and his protocol droid in progress, C-3PO.
Anakin and his mother are
slaves to the junk dealer Watto,
but Qui-Gon senses that the
Force is strong in Anakin,
so he makes a bet with his owner.
If Anakin can win the local pod race,
then Watto will hand over the
hyperdrive part and the boy.
Watto agrees, Anakin wins, and
they all head for Coruscant.
Senator Palpatine persuades Padme
to push for Supreme
Chancellor Valorum's removal,
insisting that he's corrupt.
The Senate plays right
into Palpatine's hands
and elects him in Valorum's place.
Good.
Then, according to plan, the
Trade Federation attacks.
In the Battle of Naboo, the
Gungans, including Jar Jar,
help fend off the Federation's droid army,
while Darth Maul confronts
Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan.
Maul kills the master Jedi,
but Obi-Wan slices Maul clean in half
and lets him fall down a
reactor shaft or something.
With Naboo safe, Obi-Wan
becomes a Jedi Knight
and Anakin starts training as his Padawan.
The Separatist Crisis and the
Clone Wars, 24 BBY to 19 BBY.
For the next decade,
the conflict between the Galactic Republic
and its dissenters escalates.
In 24 BBY, the estranged star
systems and megacorporations
rally together under
rogue Jedi Count Dooku.
They form the Confederacy
of Independent Systems
to secede from the Republic.
To avenge their defeat at Naboo,
the Trade Federation hires
the bounty hunter Jango Fett
to assassinate Queen Amidala.
In response, the Jedi
Council deploys Anakin
as her bodyguard while
Obi-Wan investigates.
The trail leads him to Kamino,
where he discovers Sifo-Dyas'
secret clone army, and Jango.
Obi-Wan pursues him to
the planet Geonosis,
where the Confederacy is convening.
Anakin and Padme are busy
having a forbidden romance,
but they head to Geonosis
to rescue Obi-Wan,
and they all get captured.
But they don't have to wait
long for reinforcements.
Back on Coruscant, JarJar
suggests that the Senate
give emergency powers to Palpatine.
Sure enough, his dellow felegates agree,
and Palpatine's first move
is to send an army of Jedi
and clones to Geonosis.
Everyone throws down at
the Battle of Geonosis.
Mace Windu slices Jango's head off,
Count Dooku slices Anakin's hand off,
and The Clone Wars are
officially underway.
The Clone Wars rage on for three years.
It's an excellent TV
series, highly recommend,
but we're gonna skip to the end in 19 BBY.
With the armed forces of the Republic
dispatched across the galaxy,
Coruscant is left unguarded.
General Grievous takes
advantage of the opening
and abducts Chancellor Palpatine
but, you know, not really.
Obi-Wan and Anakin save him,
then Palpatine convinces
Anakin to execute Count Dooku,
who is also on board the ship.
Upon their return to the surface,
Anakin learns that Padme is pregnant,
then Palpatine appoints
him to the Jedi Council.
So things are looking good.
But the other Jedi refuse to
grant him the rank of Master.
Anakin is outraged,
driving a wedge even deeper
between him and the Council.
While Obi-Wan is off chasing Grievous,
Anakin cozies up to Palpatine,
who reveals his true
allegiance to the Sith.
Normally, Anakin would turn
him over to the Jedi Council,
but he's been having
visions of Padme's death.
Once Palpatine tempts him
with the power to save her,
Anakin is conflicted.
Still, he informs the Jedi Council.
A squadron of Jedi arrive
at the Chancellor's door
to arrest him, and Mace
Windu has him on the ropes.
Unfortunately, Anakin rolls
up, attacks Mace Windu,
and Palpatine sends the Jedi Master
flying with some Force lightning.
Heavily scarred, Palpatine
manipulates the situation
to demonstrate the danger of the Jedi,
then initiates Order 66,
which designates all Jedi
as enemies of the republic.
Clone troopers across the
galaxy eradicate the Jedi
in a great purge.
Darth Sidious knights Anakin
as his new Sith apprentice,
heretofore known as Darth Vader.
In his first act of villainy,
Vader slaughters the
younglings at the Jedi Temple,
then travels to Mustafar
to silence the remaining
Confederacy leaders.
Obi-Wan shows up,
and the two duel through
the fire and the flames.
In the end, Obi-Wan gets the high ground
and defeats his old friend,
leaving him to die on the lava banks.
However, Darth Sidious finds
Vader and revitalizes him
with mechanical limbs and a
noisy breathing apparatus.
Elsewhere, Padme gives birth to twins,
Luke and Leia, then dies.
Obi-Wan takes Luke into
hiding on Tatooine,
while former-senator
Bail Organa adopts Leia
and takes her to Alderaan.
Yoda goes into hiding on
the swamp planet Dagobah.
He won't be too lonely, though.
Qui Gon has been hitting
him up as a Force ghost,
and teaching him how to do it, too.
Age of the Empire, 19 BBY to 0 BBY.
The Empire is in full reign of the galaxy,
so obviously their next big move
is to build a giant orbital
planet-killing battle station.
Under the cover of a
sustainable energy initiative,
they construct the
Death Star's superlaser.
The lead scientist, Galen Erso,
wises up to the Empire's true intentions,
so in 17 BBY, he deserts the Empire.
He, his wife Lyra, and their daughter Jyn
go into hiding on the
planet Lah'mu for four years
while production on the Death Star stalls.
In 13 BBY, agents of the
Empire track down the Ersos,
murder Lyra, and abduct Galen.
Jyn stays hidden with the help
of extremist rebel, Saw Gerrera.
Around the same time,
on the planet Corellia,
scrumrats Han and Qi'ra make moves
to escape their life of crime.
Han smuggles a valuable vial of coaxium
away from a botched job for Lady Proxima.
He and Qi'ra plan to use it
to bribe their way offworld.
They make it to the spaceport,
but Proxima's lackeys snatch Qi'ra.
The crime boss sells her into slavery,
which eventually brings her
into the custody of Dryden Vos.
He's the figurehead of the
Crimson Dawn crime syndicate,
led by Darth Maul, with
freaking sickass robot legs.
By 10 BBY, Qi'ra becomes one
of Crimson Dawn's top agents.
One of Vos' other criminal
associates, Tobias Beckett,
goes undercover as an Imperial Mudtrooper.
He meets Han, who has been
serving in the military
ever since he lost Qi'ra
at the Corellia terminal.
Han believes Qi'ra is still there,
so he joins Beckett
and his band of thieves
for a train heist.
Oh, and he also brings his
new wookie buddy, Chewbacca.
Too bad the the job goes horribly wrong.
They lose the refined coaxium payload
and half the team dies.
Tails between their legs, Han, Chewbacca,
and Beckett return to Dryden
Vos to face the music.
Han and Qi'ra reunite, so Han gets cocky.
He promises Vos a shipment
of unrefined coaxium
straight from the source,
the spice mines on Kessel.
He's definitely full of hot air,
but he has to deliver if
he wants to save his neck.
To accomplish this impossible feat,
Qi'ra recommends they hook
up with Lando Calrissian,
captain of the fastest ship in the galaxy,
the Millenium Falcon.
Lando agrees to be their pilot
for a cut of the payment,
and with that, they're off to Kessel.
This time, the heist is a success.
Using the sophisticated routing system
of Lando's piloting droid L3-37,
the Falcon makes the Kessel
Run in less than 12 parsecs.
The team arrives at Vos'
rendezvous spot with the coaxium,
but they are intercepted
by the Cloud Riders,
a group of nondescript rebels
who are resisting Imperial control.
Han decides to give them
the coaxium instead,
so he tricks Vos.
In the ensuing showdown, Qi'ra kills Vos,
and Han kills the double agent Beckett.
Qi'ra stays behind to work for Darth Maul
in the Crimson Dawn.
Then Han wins the
Millenium Falcon off Lando
in a game of sabacc.
But that's okay, because
Lando would later win
all of Cloud City in a card game.
Afterward, the Cloud Riders
give the unrefined coaxium
to Saw Gerrera.
Over the next 10 years,
cells like the Cloud Riders
merge to form the Rebel Alliance.
Among their ranks is Princess
Leia, Anakin's daughter,
raised as Alderaan royalty.
Luke, meanwhile, has
grown into an ambitious,
if a little whiny, young man
who dreams of becoming a pilot.
On the Imperial side of things,
Galen Erso reluctantly
completes the Death Star laser,
but he sabotages it by installing
an exposed reactor module.
One hit would detonate the entire station,
and that weak spot can be found
in the Death Star schematics
at the Citadel Tower on the planet Scarif.
He sends this intel to Saw Gerrera,
and the Rebel Alliance catches wind of it.
They aren't on good terms with Gerrera,
so they track down
someone who is, Jyn Erso.
She's made a pointed effort
to stay away from the war.
The Rebel leaders convince
her to give them an audience
with Gerrera, so she leads
them to his base on Jedha.
Eventually, Gerrera shows
Jyn her father's message.
Before it finishes, the
Empire uses their superlaser
to destroy the Holy City.
Jyn's team barely escapes,
but Gerrera gets caught in the blast.
Eventually, Rogue One
infiltrates Citadel Tower
and transmits the schematics
to the Rebel command ship,
achieving their first major victory.
However, the Empire fires
their laser down at the base,
vanquishing the entire team.
But thanks to their sacrifice,
there's hope for the galaxy.
Age of Rebellion, 0 BBY to 5 ABY.
That hope lasts for all of 10 minutes
before Darth Vader storms the Rebel ship.
Before she's taken captive,
Princess Leia dispatches R2-D2 and C-3PO
with the schematics to get
help from Obi-Wan Kenobi.
The droids wander the wasteland
until some Jawas grab them and sell them
to local moisture farmer
Owen Lars, Luke's uncle.
The persistent R2-D2 abandons
the farm to find Obi-Wan,
and Luke follows him out.
When they meet Obi-Wan,
he gives Luke his father's lightsaber
and offers to bring him along to Alderaan,
but Luke declines.
He returns to his farm
only to find it decimated
by Storm Troopers, and his
aunt and uncle burnt to crisps.
First thing's first, they need a pilot,
so they hit up the Mos Eisley
cantina to find a ride.
Luckily for them, Han Solo
and Chewbacca are in town.
After an Empire spy rats them out,
they all take off on
the Millennium Falcon.
As they are en route to Alderaan,
the Empire uses the Death
Star to eradicate the planet,
so the gang arrives to only find wreckage.
The battle station then pulls them aboard
with its tractor beam, which
works out in their favor
since they needed to
save the Princess anyway.
While Luke and Han find Leia,
Obi-Wan goes to shut down
the station's tractor beam.
He crosses paths with Darth Vader,
and the two reprise
their decades-old duel,
albeit much slower with a lot less lava.
Luke and the others watch helplessly
as Darth Vader strikes
Obi-Wan down before them.
With the Princess saved and
the schematic reclaimed,
the Rebel Alliance regroups on Yavin IV.
They devise a coordinated
attack on the Death Star,
in which they'll exploit Galen
Erso's faulty reactor shaft
to blow the whole damn
thing to smithereens.
The odds are low and the
situation looks grim.
With much of the fleet taken
out by Imperial TIE fighters,
Vader is right on Luke's tail,
but Han swoops in and bails him out.
Luke takes the shot.
It's a slam dunk and
the Death Star explodes.
After this epic failure,
the Empire decides
the whole giant orbital
planet-killing battle station thing
was a good idea, it
just needs to be bigger.
They commence construction
on the Death Star II,
near the forest moon of Endor.
For the next three
years, the war continues,
pushing the Rebels into
hiding on the ice planet Hoth.
In 3 ABY, the Empire tracks
them down and storms their base.
The team splits up, with
Luke heading to Dagobah
to formally begin his
Jedi training with Yoda,
while Han, Leia, and Chewbacca
make their way to Bespin
to take shelter with Lando Calrissian.
Darth Vader anticipates their arrival,
so he strikes up a deal with Lando.
The posse stumbles right into his trap.
See, the Empire hired Boba Fett
to track the Millenium Falcon.
Now that the gang is in Vader's clutches,
Han gets frozen in carbonite
and Boba Fett hauls him off to Tatooine.
Luke senses that his
friends are in danger,
so he prematurely ends his training
and scurries off to help.
He confronts Darth Vader
and they duel deep inside Cloud City.
But the inexperienced fighter
is no match for the Sith Lord.
Vader slices off Luke's hand
and lets him know that he is his father.
You know the line.
Luke then drops into the
depths of the floating colony,
where the Millenium
Falcon gives him a lift.
The heroes are shaken, but
their hope is unwavering.
Over the next year, Luke
acquires a shiny new hand
and a shiny new lightsaber.
In 4 ABY, he and his friends
lead a rescue mission
to save Han from Jabba's palace.
In the process, Leia
strangles the gluttonous Hutt,
while Han sends Boba Fett
spiraling into the sarlacc pit.
Reunited, the Rebels
prepare for a final assault
on the Empire, whose second Death Star
is nearing completion.
They set up shop on Endor and befriend
the local merchandising
opportunities, the Ewoks.
While Lando leads the battle
against the second Death Star
in the Falcon, Luke journeys
inside to face his father.
Emperor Palpatine awaits him there
and tries to entice Luke to the dark side.
Luke is unflappable,
so he and Vader clash lightsabers again.
This time, Luke is triumphant,
but still won't give in to the dark side.
With Vader incapacipated
and Luke's resolve strong,
the Emperor whips out his electric hands
and forces the young
Skywalker to the ground.
Then in his first and final
act of father-son bonding,
Vader lifts Palpatine and
lobs him over a railing.
Unfortunately, the full force
of Palpatine's lightning
has done its damage and Vader
is in critical condition.
In his final moments, Luke
unmasks his father to say goodbye
to Anakin Skywalker, his true father.
Luke escapes, Lando blows
out the Death Star's core,
and everyone parties back
on Endor with the Ewoks.
With the Empire severely
weakened, the galaxy rejoices.
The pillars of the Rebel Alliance
become the foundation of a New Republic.
However, they're not out
of the woods just yet.
For the next year,
the Rebels ward off
remnants of Imperial cells,
culminating in the
Battle of Jakku in 5 ABY.
The crash of the Star Destroyer Inflictor
marks the end of the civil
war, and that same year,
Ben Solo is born to Leia and Han.
Age of the New Republic, 5 ABY to 34 ABY.
A decade after the Battle
of Jakku, Rey is born.
According to Kylo Ren,
her parents are drunkards
who pawn her off to Unkar
Plutt for quick cash,
but we don't know who they actually are.
Either way, Rey keeps
surviving as a junker on Jakku,
convinced that they'll
return for her one day.
She grows up outside
the Starship Graveyard,
wistfully imagining herself
as a one of the Rebels.
But the truth isn't so glamorous.
Han Solo loses the Millenium
Falcon to a Red Nikto
named Gannis Ducain, who
loses it to the Irving Boys,
who loses it to Unkar Plutt on Jakku.
He and Chewbacca patiently
wait for the tracking beacon
to go back online so they can reclaim it.
In 21 ABY, the remnants of the Empire
rise from the ashes of the First Order,
a legion of more violent,
more vindictive extremists.
They're under the leadership
of Supreme Leader Snoke,
a disfigured and unqualified commander
with a flair for golden robes and rings.
By 28 ABY, Leia becomes
aware of this looming danger,
but the Galactic Senate is
unwilling to hear her out.
They don't exactly trust Darth
Vader's daughter, you know?
So, she resigns from the Senate,
then aligns with other believers
to form the Resistance.
Luke rebuilds the Jedi Order
and takes on a new generation of padawans.
One of them is his nephew Ben,
who proves himself worthy of
the powerful Skywalker lineage.
So much so, in fact, that Luke fears him.
In a moment of weakness,
Luke contemplates murdering
his nephew in his sleep,
but his better judgment returns.
It's too late, though, as
Ben wakes up to see Luke
with his lightsaber at the ready.
His faith in the Jedi shaken,
Ben slaughters the other pupils
and burns Luke's temple to the ground.
He runs off with Supreme Leader Snoke
and takes on a new alias, Kylo Ren.
Guilty about his nephew's corruption,
Luke turns his back on the Force
and exiles himself to Ahch-To.
Age of Resistance, 34 ABY to 35 ABY.
The First Order runs with the Empire's
giant orbital planet-killing
battle station thing,
only they decided to make it even bigger.
They construct the Starkiller Base,
a weapon with the size and
inhabitability of a planet.
Leia believes the Resistance's
only hope is to find Luke,
so she enlists hot-headed
pilot Poe Dameron
to retrieve a map to Ahch-To.
Kylo Ren has also been
on the hunt for this map,
looking to kill his former master.
When Poe and Ren collide on
Jakku, Poe gets taken captive.
But before he does, he
dispatches the astromech BB-8
with the map to get help.
Eventually, BB-8 stumbles upon Rey.
Meanwhile, a Stormtrooper
named FN-2187 goes rogue
and helps Poe escape
from First Order custody.
Poe gives him a nickname, Finn,
and they crash land on Jakku,
but Finn can't find a trace
of Poe besides his jacket.
So, he dons it and heads to the Outpost.
Rey and BB-8 are there, and
the astromech recognizes
Poe's jacket, so they all join forces.
With the First Order hot on their trail,
they take off on the Millennium Falcon.
With the beacon reactivated,
Han and Chewbacca follow the
signal and board the ship.
While sympathetic to the cause,
Han doesn't want to face the
Resistance, meaning Leia,
so they hit up Maz Kanata's
place to find a willing ride.
Once there, Rey finds
Luke's old lightsaber,
touches it, and gets
flooded with Force visions.
She barely has time to think it over
when the First Order attacks, abducts her,
and takes her back to Starkiller Base.
With the aid of the
Resistance, Han, Chewbacca,
and Finn infiltrate the Base.
While Finn finds Rey,
Han goes solo, mm-hmm,
to blow up the station's
thermal oscillator.
He crosses paths with Kylo Ren,
and Han tries to turn
him back to the light.
Rey and Finn watch helplessly
as Kylo Ren strikes Han down before them.
In a fury, Chewbacca shoots
Kylo with his bowcaster,
severely injuring him and
blowing up the explosives,
creating an opening for Poe Dameron
to destroy the thermal oscillator,
and Starkiller Base along with it.
As the planet crumbles around them,
Kylo chases Rey and Finn
into the snowy woods.
Kylo slices Finn's back,
but Rey taps into her latent Force powers
and overcomes the injured warrior.
All three of them escape
before Starkiller Base finally explodes.
With the map to Ahch-To reclaimed,
Leia sends Rey to find Luke.
But the rest of the resistance
has a problem on their hands.
The First Order is hunting them down,
and they're all forced to retreat.
From here on in, there's
a harrowing space chase
as the First Order picks off
Resistance ships one by one.
Leia's in a coma, her buddy
Admiral Holdo takes over,
Finn and this random engineer named Rose
head to a casino planet
called Canto Bight,
oof, there's a lot going on.
On Ahch-To, Rey meets the old Jedi Master,
but he is unwilling to
join the Resistance.
Even so, Rey persuades Luke to teach her
the ways of the Force,
and even though he's fearful
of her power, he obliges.
Throughout their training,
Rey has Force-calls with Kylo,
and the two become convinced
that they can turn the other
to join them.
She tells Luke about
her plan to turn Kylo,
but Luke's not having any of it.
After they clash, Luke has
a heart-to-heart with Yoda.
Yoda suddenly burns
down the old Jedi tree,
assuring Luke that failure
is the greatest teacher.
Luke's worried about
the sacred Jedi texts,
but Rey swiped them before she departed
for Snoke's battleship.
Once she's on board, Kylo Ren delivers her
directly to Snoke.
But in a turn of events,
Kylo Ren gives the Supreme
Leader the Darth Maul treatment,
and he and Rey team up and duke it out
with the Elite Praetorian Guards.
At the end of the battle,
Kylo doesn't want to join
the light or the darkness.
He wants to just do his own thing.
He invites Rey to join
him, but she refuses
and escapes after they
destroy Luke's lightsaber.
In this time, Leia comes to,
Finn and Rose's mission to Canto Bight
turned out to be an utter failure,
and Admiral Holdo wiped out a
bunch of the First Order fleet
by crashing the Resistance
ship into them at light speed.
Badass scene, will not lie.
Despite her sacrifice,
the First Order have cornered
the last of the Resistance
on the salt planet Crait.
Kylo Ren intends to make
the killing blow there,
but Luke basically pulls
the greatest Jedi mind trick
of all time.
He creates a Force projection of himself
from across the galaxy,
and battles Kylo Ren in front of everyone.
Their battle buys the Rebels
enough time to escape,
but Luke exerts too much energy.
He fades away, becoming
one with the Force.
Now Luke is gone, the Resistance
has been all but decimated,
but the spark of rebellion
has restored hope
to the people across the galaxy.
And that's what we know heading
into "Rise of Skywalker."
We obviously condensed
a lot of history here,
so go ahead and fill in
the blanks in the comments.
And remember to subscribe to Cinematica
for more timelines like this one.
I've been your host, Justice,
and we'll see you next time.